【Para.1】The automation of millions of jobs will increase inequality in the UK unless the government **intervenes** to support small businesses and workers through the **transition**, according to a report into the future of work.
- 引出主要矛盾：工作的 Automation
- 政府要做的事情：支持小微企业等

【Para.2】Ministers need to **act in the interest of** those who will be made unemployed or whose jobs dramatically change, says the report by the Institute for the Future of Work (IFOW) thinktank, in order to **prevent** skills shortages hitting employers and workers from suffering a decline in job satisfaction and wellbeing.
- 看来核心在这篇 IFOW，其实第一段就提到了
- Minister：注重失业人群

【Para.3】Artificial intelligence software is expected to become a widespread tool in factories, offices and in the public sector, demanding new skills, the IFOW said. However, a survey of 5,000 UK employees found “a pervasive sense of anxiety, fear and uncertainty” about the introduction of AI technology, and what it could do to their work.
- 工人出于自己的工作，对AI持**焦虑态度**

【Para.4】Christopher Pissarides, a Nobel prize-winner in economics and the report’s main author, said ministers needed to consider “how AI can bring productivity and prosperity, without putting people under more intense stress and pressure? How can it help us identify and deliver new opportunities, without exacerbating growing divides cross the country?”
- 权威人士提出：政府应该思考如何在保证工人情绪的情况下使用AI

【Para.5】He said the three-year report, which also surveyed 1,000 businesses, discovered that while some major employers had developed tools to **mitigate** the effects of automation and AI to support staff, many smaller employers struggled to comprehend how they would **transform** the workplace and what skills and training of staff would be needed in order to adapt over the next decade.
- 文章的另一角度：雇主对员工使用自动化工具，有疑问

【Para.6】The report makes a series of **recommendations**, including **establishing** science centres – such as London’s Crick Institute – in regional cities to prevent the capital and the arc between Oxford and Cambridge from dominating innovations in fast-growing bio-technologies and securing a disproportionate number of high paying jobs.
- 针对高学历人群的访谈（？）

【Para.7】Pissarides, professor at the London School of Economics, said **devolving** decision-making to the regions would also be an important element of the **reforms** needed, while unions should also be given new powers of “digital access, **collective** rights to information and new e-learning roles, backed by the Treasury”.
- 某教授：积极态度

【Para.8】He said this would be in “**recognition** of the key role of unions to deliver meaningful partnership working”.
- 团队工作？

【Para.9】James Hayton, professor of innovation at Warwick Business School, and a member of the report team, said the impact on jobs, skills, and job quality should not be **blamed** on AI, but how firms used it.
- 另一个名人：不应该在细节工作上，而在管理层面

【Para.10】“It is how firms and managers choose to implement it that is so crucial in bringing benefit to their workforce and overall productivity,” he said.