【Para.1】On August 6th 1776 the London Gazette did what it had done for over 110 years. It named freshly [bankrupted](bankrupt.md) [merchants](merchant.md). It [advertised](advertise.md) imported linens and [ostrich](ostrich.md) feathers, and listed the average price of corn for each of England’s counties. And when it added that the American colonies had declared independence, it reported the news [as if](as if) it were a failed business or a lost dog.
- 通过一个事例，介绍 Gazette 的历史背景及其作用

【Para.2】The Gazette is Britain’s oldest surviving newspaper, and the official journal of government. Established in 1665, with [courtiers](courtier.md), government ministers and [diplomats](diplomat.md) as its early journalists, it became the government’s mouthpiece, a tool to impose order [amid](amid.md) the [turmoil](turmoil.md) of the [restoration](restoration.md). In an age when [rumour](rumour.md) spread fast, what was official was [sacred](sacre.md), recorded with the same presses that printed the Bible. “Published by Authority”, its [masthead](masthead.md) declared.
- 报纸的地位：政府的官方报纸，出版量巨大

【Para.3】One thread running through the Gazette’s history has been its role in documenting [liquidations](liquidation.md) and [insolvencies](insolvency.md). The fear of being “[gazetted](gazetted.md)” still exists today, as it did in the 17th century. Another role is reporting military [promotions](promotion.md) and honours for public life.
- 报纸的主要作用documenting liquidations and insolvencies

【Para.4】As a daily read, the Gazette is hardly thrilling. It is not supposed to be. It has had no editor since 2012. Calling it a newspaper is a stretch. It is really a public ledger—a database of bulletins which are required to be published there by law. It survives because it is the mechanism by which things become official.
- 2012 年开始停摆
- 可以被称为一个 database

【Para.5】Yet its [longevity](longevity.md) and [meticulous](meticulous.md) record-keeping make it fascinating. [Flipping](flip.md) through its archives is like [rummaging](rummage.md) through an [attic](attic.md) in search of the occasional treasure. Such as the £50 offered in 1829 as a reward for the “evil-disposed person or persons unknown” who “[feloniously](feloniously.md) and [maliciously](maliciously.md)” set fire to the wooden [pier](pier.md) in the Welsh village of Llanddulas. Or the 1752 edition which proclaimed a law making illegal “the [horrid](horrid.md) crime of murder”. Natasha Glaisyer, a historian, points out that it is in these dry records that the texture of history emerges: the little honours, the debts and the lost pocket-watches.
- Gazette 做过的一些有趣的事
- 权威人士：报纸提供历史材料

【Para.6】The Gazette has survived plague, fire, war, revolution and misinformation. Its current publisher, the Stationery Office, is the privatised publishing arm of His Majesty’s Stationery Office. Although its news-gathering functions have long gone, its value as a historical resource fulfils the ideals of journalism. There is value in keeping a reliable record. Trivia can help capture the truth: something mattered enough to write it down.
- 报纸重新开办